General principles
==================

The code MUST NOT be copy-pasted, ever. Use decoupling, extension or
polymorphism.

The least privilege principle MUST be honored. All methods and
properties MUST be private by default. Public properties MUST NOT be
used outside data services. If a class is abstract, its methods and
properties still MUST be private, not protected, unless they are
actually used by children.

All SOLID principles MUST be honored.

One line of code SHOULD NOT include more than one statement. Longer
code with shorter lines is easier to read and debug.

## Eloquency

Unused code MUST be deleted. If a coder is sure that the code will be
used in the nearest future but has to commit to VCS while the code is
not used, they SHOULD place a TODO comment above the code.

Public methods without public calls MUST be made private. Hierarchies
with single implementation SHOULD be flattened. Conditions that are
always true or always false MUST be deleted. Methods that return a value
that never gets used by their callers MUST return `void` instead.

## Abbreviations

Class, method or variable names MUST NOT be abbreviated or shortened
unless the meaning is perfectly clear. How to determine is the meaning
perfectly clear or not? If you can say the abbreviation out loud and you
will be understood, then it's perfectly clear. For example, if you
pronounce USA as in 'yoo-es-ey', you will be understood, so it's not
necessary to write 'United States Of America'. In software development,
examples of perfectly clear abbreviations and shortenings are 'DB' for
database and 'repo' for repository.

However, names SHOULD be terse and SHOULD NOT be more than 30 characters
long. An exception is made for test classes and methods because they are
never called directly.

## Prefixes and suffixes

`Abstract` prefix MUST be used for abstract classes.

`Interface` or `-able` suffix MUST be used for interfaces.

`Trait` suffix MUST be used for traits.

`Exception` suffix MUST be used for exception classes.

`Service`, `-er` or `-or` suffix SHOULD be used for services.

`Data` suffix MAY be used for data services.

`Factory` suffix SHOULD be used for factories.

Class names SHOULD be nouns or noun phrases, while method names SHOULD
be verbs or verb phrases.

If there is a choice whether to use singular or plural word for class,
singular SHOULD be used, with the exception of words that are used
mostly in plural, such as 'data'.

## Code blocks

The code MUST NOT have more than two levels of code blocks, not counting
classes and named methods. A code block is defined as a conditional
(including exception-catching conditionals), a loop or a lambda. If
there is a need for creating third level of code block, extract method
or class.
